Java - Improve First Workout (#2097)
enkidevs/curriculum: java/fundamentals/intro-to-java/why-should-i-learn-java.md

---
author: mihaiberq

type: normal

category: feature

aspects: 
  - introduction

links:
  - '[Who is using Java?](https://www.quora.com/Why-is-Java-so-important){website}'
  - '[Java Roadmap](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/java-se-support-roadmap.html){website}'

---

# Why Learn Java?

---
## Content

Here are several reasons to learn Java:

1. It's one of the most used programming languages in the world (with millions of developers).

2. The **basic concepts are relatively easy to understand**.

3. It's **static typed**, meaning that **the code can't be built before solving the errors**. Even though the stricter environment doesn't necessarily mean a better one, it allows beginners to stick to less overwhelming rules.

4. Once you create your program, you can run it on any machine. This principle is called **"write once, run anywhere"**(WORA). We'll explain this in the next insight.

5. It has continued support, with the roadmap being available publicly.

> There are many more reasons you should learn Java. The only downside is, as with all other skills, is that *it might take some time*.

Reviewer: Typo:

```suggestion
There are many more reasons you should learn Java. The only downside is, as with all other skills, that *it might take some time*.
```

---
author: mihaiberq

type: normal

category: feature

aspects: 
  - introduction

links:
  - '[Who is using Java?](https://www.quora.com/Why-is-Java-so-important){website}'
  - '[Java Roadmap](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/java-se-support-roadmap.html){website}'

---

# Why Learn Java?

---
## Content

Here are several reasons to learn Java:

1. It's one of the most used programming languages in the world (with millions of developers).

2. The **basic concepts are relatively easy to understand**.

> 3. It's **static typed**, meaning that **the code can't be built before solving the errors**. Even though the stricter environment doesn't necessarily mean a better one, it allows beginners to stick to less overwhelming rules.

Reviewer 2: wondering if we should also say that this kind of behaviour helps new developers catch bugs more easily

Reviewer: yeah, that might show a usefulness for those hat are starting out.

Maybe something like:

```suggestion
3. It's **statically typed**, meaning that **the code can't be built before solving the errors**. Even though the stricter environment doesn't necessarily mean a better one, it allows developers to catch bugs early on.
```
